What is a coronavirus?
Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that are known to cause illness ranging from the common cold to more severe diseases.
What is a novel coronavirus?
A novel coronavirus (CoV) is a new strain of coronavirus that has not been previously identified in humans.
Where do coronavirus come from?
Coronavirus are viruses that circulate among animals with some of them also known to infect humans. Bats are considered natural hosts of these viruses, yet several other species of animals are also known to act as sources.
Which countries have confirmed cases?
212 Countries and Territories around the world have reported a total of 3,728,047 confirmed cases of the coronavirus COVID-19.
What is the death toll till date?
A death toll of 258,356 has been reported till date.
How many cases in Germany?
167,007 cases with a death rate of 6,993 has been reported
Are coronavirus and Covid-19 the same thing? 
Coronavirus and Covid-19 are not the same thing, but sometimes the terms can be used interchangeably. 
What is the difference then between coronavirus and Covid-19?
This “novel coronavirus” is novel because it just emerged in humans in late 2019.
Can Human beings get infected to coronavirus from animals?
Yes,detailed investigations found that SARS-CoV was transmitted from civet cats to humans in China.
What are the observed symptoms of coronavirus?
It depends on the virus, but common signs include respiratory symptoms, fever, cough, shortness of breath, breathing difficulties and sometimes death.
Does coronavirus transmit from person to person?
Yes, there is enough proof that some coronaviruses can be transmitted from person to person, usually after close contact with an infected patient.
Is there a vaccine for a coronavirus?
When a disease is new, there is no vaccine until one is developed. 
Is treatment for coronavirus available?
There is no specific treatment for disease caused by a novel coronavirus till now.
What steps one should I follow to protect themselves??
Washing of hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, or cleaning hands thoroughly with alcohol-based solutions is recommended. 
Are health workers at risk from a coronavirus?
Yes, they can be, as health care workers come into contact with patients more often than the general public.
When is a person infectious?
The infectious period may begin one to two days before symptoms appear and last for 7-12 days,in moderate case and up to two weeks on average in severe cases..
Are some people more at risk than others?
Elderly people above 70 years of age and those with underlying health conditions are considered to be more at risk of developing severe symptoms.
Are children also at risk of infection and what is their potential role in transmission?
Children make up a very small proportion of reported COVID-19 cases, with about 1% of all cases reported being under 10 years, and 4% aged 10-19 years. 
What is the risk of infection in pregnant women and neonates?
It seems that pregnant women appear to experience similar clinical manifestations as non-pregnant women who have progressed to COVID-19 pneumonia and to date, there have been no maternal deaths, no pregnancy losses and only one stillbirth reported.
When should I be tested for COVID-19?
Current advice for testing depends on the stage of the outbreak in the country or area where you live.Testing approaches will be adapted to the situation at national and local level. National authorities may decide to test only subgroups of suspected cases based on the national capacity to test, the availability of necessary equipment for testing, the level of community transmission of COVID-19, or other criteria. 
What are the emergency numbers to contact in Frankfurt during COVID-19?
The emergency number for medical help is 112.
Can you catch coronavirus more than once? Or does a person become immune or have long-term immunity to the virus?
It’s too early to know for sure.But other coronaviruses, like ones that cause the common cold, might give us clues. With common cold coronaviruses, you don’t actually have immunity that lasts for very long, and so we don’t know the answer with this specific coronavirus.
What is contact tracing and how does it help stop a virus? 
Contact tracing tracks down anyone who might have been infected by a person who was recently diagnosed so those contacts can quarantine themselves and prevent further spread. .
Doesn’t the flu kill more people than coronavirus?
No. More people have died from coronavirus in the US since February than from the flu since October.
Can coronavirus spread through water, like in a swimming pool or hot tub?
There is no evidence that COVID-19 can be spread to humans through the use of pools and hot tubs.But health officials still advise staying at least 6 feet away from others because COVID-19 is a respiratory disease. In other words, you probably won’t get coronavirus from the water, but you could get coronavirus from someone close to you in the water.
Can coronavirus travel by wind? Is it safe to go for a walk or exercise outside if someone jogs or bikes past me?
Coronavirus cannot travel very far in the air according to the World Health Organization. The virus mainly spreads through small droplets from an infected person’s nose or mouth, which get released when a person coughs, sneezes or speaks.
Can you safely reuse a non-cloth mask that you can’t wash, like a disposable mask?
Yes, you can if you disinfect it after use.To disinfect masks that you cannot wash, it is recommended leaving them in a clean, safe place in your home for a few days. After that, it should no longer be infectious, as this coronavirus is known to survive on hard surfaces for only up to three days.
Is it true young people with coronavirus are also having blood clots and strokes?
Yes, some young adults have suffered strokes after getting coronavirus.At least one patient has died, and others are in rehabilitation facilities, intensive care or in the stroke unit. Only one patient went home but will require intense care.
Can coronavirus stick to clothes? 
Coronavirus can stay alive for up to three days on stainless steel and plastic but not clothing.
How can someone spread coronavirus when asymptomatic? 
It’s easy for asymptomatic people to spread coronavirus when you speak, sometimes you’ll spit a little bit, you’ll rub your nose. 
How to grocery shop safely?
When grocery shopping, keep at least 1-metre distance from others and avoid touching your eyes, mouth and nose.If possible, sanitize the handles of shopping trolleys or baskets before shopping. Once home, wash your hands thoroughly and also after handling and storing your purchased products. There is currently no confirmed case of COVID-19 transmitted through food or food packaging.

