Coronavirus are a large family of viruses that are known to cause illness ranging from the common cold to more severe diseases.
A novel coronavirus (CoV) is a new strain of coronavirus that has not been previously identified in humans.
Coronavirus are viruses that circulate among animals with some of them also known to infect humans. Bats are considered natural hosts of these viruses, yet several other species of animals are also known to act as sources.
212 Countries and Territories around the world have reported a total of 24,183,719 confirmed cases of the coronavirus COVID-19.
A death toll of 825,986 has been reported till date.
In Germany there are 238,178 cases with a death rate of 7001 has been reported.
Coronavirus and Covid-19 are not the same thing, but sometimes the terms can be used interchangeably. 
This “novel coronavirus” is novel because it just emerged in humans in late 2019.
Yes,detailed investigations found that SARS-CoV was transmitted from civet cats to humans in China.
It depends on the virus, but common signs include respiratory symptoms, fever, cough, shortness of breath, breathing difficulties and sometimes death.
Yes, there is enough proof that some coronaviruses can be transmitted from person to person, usually after close contact with an infected patient.
When a disease is new, there is no vaccine until one is developed. 
There is no specific treatment for disease caused by a novel coronavirus till now.
Washing of hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, or cleaning hands thoroughly with alcohol-based solutions is recommended. 
Yes, they can be, as health care workers come into contact with patients more often than the general public.
The infectious period may begin one to two days before symptoms appear and last for 7-12 days,in moderate case and up to two weeks on average in severe cases..
Elderly people above 70 years of age and those with underlying health conditions are considered to be more at risk of developing severe symptoms.
Children make up a very small proportion of reported COVID-19 cases, with about 1% of all cases reported being under 10 years, and 4% aged 10-19 years. 
It seems that pregnant women appear to experience similar clinical manifestations as non-pregnant women who have progressed to COVID-19 pneumonia and to date, there have been no maternal deaths, no pregnancy losses and only one stillbirth reported.
Current advice for testing depends on the stage of the outbreak in the country or area where you live.Testing approaches will be adapted to the situation at national and local level. National authorities may decide to test only subgroups of suspected cases based on the national capacity to test, the availability of necessary equipment for testing, the level of community transmission of COVID-19, or other criteria. 
The emergency number for medical help is 112.
It’s too early to know for sure.But other coronaviruses, like ones that cause the common cold, might give us clues. With common cold coronaviruses, you don’t actually have immunity that lasts for very long, and so we don’t know the answer with this specific coronavirus.
Contact tracing tracks down anyone who might have been infected by a person who was recently diagnosed so those contacts can quarantine themselves and prevent further spread. .
No. More people have died from coronavirus in the US since February than from the flu since October.
Can coronavirus spread through water, like in a swimming pool or hot tub?
There is no evidence that COVID-19 can be spread to humans through the use of pools and hot tubs.But health officials still advise staying at least 6 feet away from others because COVID-19 is a respiratory disease. In other words, you probably won’t get coronavirus from the water, but you could get coronavirus from someone close to you in the water.
Coronavirus cannot travel very far in the air according to the World Health Organization. The virus mainly spreads through small droplets from an infected person’s nose or mouth, which get released when a person coughs, sneezes or speaks.
Yes, you can if you disinfect it after use.To disinfect masks that you cannot wash, it is recommended leaving them in a clean, safe place in your home for a few days. After that, it should no longer be infectious, as this coronavirus is known to survive on hard surfaces for only up to three days.
Yes, some young adults have suffered strokes after getting coronavirus.At least one patient has died, and others are in rehabilitation facilities, intensive care or in the stroke unit. Only one patient went home but will require intense care.
Coronavirus can stay alive for up to three days on stainless steel and plastic but not clothing.
It’s easy for asymptomatic people to spread coronavirus when you speak, sometimes you’ll spit a little bit, you’ll rub your nose. 
When grocery shopping, keep at least 1-metre distance from others and avoid touching your eyes, mouth and nose.If possible, sanitize the handles of shopping trolleys or baskets before shopping. Once home, wash your hands thoroughly and also after handling and storing your purchased products. There is currently no confirmed case of COVID-19 transmitted through food or food packaging.
At the most basic level, you can help by following the rules on social distancing and staying home.
Yes, donor blood is not being used to treat coronavirus patients, but transfusions are still needed for cases like organ transplants.
In labs around the world, there is now cautious optimism that a coronavirus vaccine, and perhaps more than one, will be ready sometime next year.
Restaurants are slowly reopening in many regions but just because you can eat out again doesn’t mean you should.
The level of risk in an elevator depends on many factors, including its size, how fast it travels between floors, how long its doors stay open and whether it has a ventilation system.
If your gym is open and you plan to go, disinfect yourself and any surfaces that you touch frequently. 
As “normal” temperature numbers can vary, but generally, keep an eye out for a temperature of 100.5 degrees Fahrenheit or higher.
Federal health officials do not include toe lesions in the list of coronavirus symptoms, but some dermatologists are pushing for a change, saying so-called Covid toe should be sufficient grounds for testing.
If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible.
If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the Center of disease control recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears.
The coronavirus spreads primarily by droplets from your mouth and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze so it is recommended to maintain distance.
A study which has yet to be peer-reviewed, found that hydroxychloroquine, with or without azithromycin, did not help patients avoid the need for ventilators and hydroxychloroquine alone was associated with an increased risk of death.
Most people who catch the virus have few symptoms or none, but some get very sick, most often with pneumonia which damages the lungs.
Convalescent plasma is the term used for the plasma — the liquid part of your blood composed mostly of water — of a person who has recovered from a disease.
Probably not as cooked food, heat likely inactivates the virus, though there hasn’t been a study looking at the specific temperatures and conditions.
The answer is a qualified yes, but there’s a lot that isn’t known yet.
Should I wear a mask?
It is recommended that we wear cloth masks if they go out in public.
In recent tests, HEPA furnace filters scored high, as did vacuum cleaner bags, fabric similar to flannel pajamas and those of 600-count pillowcases.
Gloves may be helpful if someone in your household becomes sick, reducing the amount of times you have to wash your hands, the most effective intervention is just washing your hands.
Scientists are still looking into this and suggest that warmer places account for a smaller share of global cases and have had slower infection rates. 
A new study found that it may potentially slow the spread of the disease, though not enough to wipe out the pathogen or keep the pandemic from resurging in the fall.
Complete disinfecting protocol includes four steps: wiping a surface of obvious dirt and residue; “dwell time” to let the disinfectant sit; wiping the surface clean; and rinsing with water.
Online deliveries are a boon for those who cannot leave their homes, as well as small restaurants who fear going out of business. 
SARS stands for severe acute respiratory syndrome so it differs from Covid19.
That depends on the severity of infection.

